---
title: "A Synchronized Task Formulation for Robotic Convoy Operations"
authors: "Charles Noren, Bhaskar Vundurthy, Sebastian Scherer, Howie Choset and Matthew Travers"
venue: "IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters"
date: 2025-05-16
paper_link: "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11005881" 
# external_url: "" 
# video: ""
bibtex: |
  @article{noren2025synchronized,
    title={A Synchronized Task Formulation for Robotic Convoy Operations},
    author={Noren, Charles and Vundurthy, Bhaskar and Scherer, Sebastian and Choset, Howie and Travers, Matthew},
    journal={IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters},
    year={2025},
    publisher={IEEE}
  }
image: /img/publications/vrpms_cc.jpg
tags:
  - Multi-Robot Systems
  - Task Planning

---

Future ground logistics missions will require multiple robots to travel in a convoy between locations. As each location may require a different number of robots (e.g. resupply vehicles), these missions will require a mutable convoy formation structure that may be divided to meet operational needs at each location. We model this mission type by modifying the vehicle routing problem with multiple synchronizations (VRPMS) to enforce convoy constraints (VRPMS-CC). This centralized approach to organizing and routing convoys is represented as a graph-based routing problem and then solved as a mixed integer program. A solution of the VRPMS-CC forms convoys by ensuring that agents participating in the same convoy remain spatially and temporally coupled, traversing the same edge of the graph simultaneously. We demonstrate our approach through numerical studies, where we route up to six simulated agents through twenty convoying tasks, and on robotic hardware. These demonstrations motivate two further contributions to specialize our approach to robotic systems. We introduce: 1) a warm-starting heuristic that improves solver times by up to eighty-nine percent and 2) an online multi-depot variant of the VRPMS-CC that responds to a priori unknown impassable environmental obstacles.